WAKESKATE TRICK LIST
Shove it / Body‐varial Tricks
Shove‐it – 180° rotation of the board under the riders fixed body. FS or BS. S
Pop shove it – Ollie with a shove‐it rotated in the air. FS or BS, PS
360 Shove‐it – 360° rotation of the board under the riders fixed body. FS or BS. 3S
Body‐varial – 180° rotation of the rider, while the board is fixed. FS or BS, Bv
Big‐Spin ‐‐  360° shove‐it with a same direction 180° body‐varial, FS/BS, Bs
Bigger Spin – 540° shove‐it with a same direction 180° body‐varial, FS/BS, 5Bs
Gazelle – 540° shove‐it with a same direction 360° body‐varial, FS/BS,
Flip Tricks
Kickflip ‐‐  Ollie the board and the rider kicks/drags his front foot at the heelside edge of the board in order to
make it flip 360° along the board's axis. K
Heelflip ‐‐  Ollie the board and the rider kicks/drags his front foot at the toeside edge of the board in order to
make it flip 360° along the board's axis. H
Frontsidekickflip – Kickflip with a FS 180°, Fk
Backsidekickflip – Kickflip with a BS 180°, Bk
Varialkickflip – BS 180° pop shove‐it with a Kickflip, Vk
Hardflip – FS 180° pop shove‐it with a Kickflip, Hk
Sexchange – Kickflip with a FS 180° body‐varial, Sex
360Kickflip ‐‐ BS 360° pop shove‐it with a Kickflip, 3K
Bigflip – FS/BS Bigspin with a Kickflip, Bf
Fingerflip – the rider starts the rotation of the Kickflip with his hand. Fif
Glossary
All Kickflip ‐‐ combinations are possible as heelflip‐combinations.
Late – all tricks they were performed in the end of the airtime.
North – the rider does an Ollie and pushes his front foot over the nose/ front edge of the board in the air. The
back foot is still on the board.
South ‐‐ the rider does an Ollie and pushes his back foot over the tail/ backside edge of the board in the air.
The front foot is still on the board
boned/ tweak – during a trick push the board in front of your center
Obstacles
Delivery‐boy – the rider kicks the board in his hands, while he is sliding on an obstacle with his shoes. Db
Up – trick up on the obstacle
On – trick on the obstacle
Out – trick out the obstacle
Specials
Benihana – an Ollie with a tailgrab, while your back foot is pushed over the heelside edge in the air.
Madonna – an Ollie with a nosegrap, while your front foot is pushed over the heelside edge in the air.
Mute – an Ollie with a nosegrap, while your front foot is pushed over the toeside edge in the air.
Christ Air – the ride graps his board indy and pushes his feets in superman style in the air, like a railey
Cable Wakeboard World Council   www.cablewakeboard.net                                                                      Page 1 of 1