2019 WWA WAKESURF EVENT RULES
GENERAL INFORMATION FOR ALL ATHLETES
Scope of These Rules- These Rules set forth herein governs the conduct and organization of the 2019 World Wake Association Events.
("WWA” will be used as abbreviations for the rest of the rules.) These rules will be final unless specific changes, addendums and/or
exceptions are distributed. It is the responsibility of each Athlete, event organizer and official to be familiar with all WWA rules.
Competition Times- All riders must be on site and ready to compete 30 minutes before posted start time for the event. The WWA and/or
event organizer reserves the right to change/alter schedule at any time.WWA recommends that riders be on site for at least one hour before
the scheduled start of their division.
Athlete and Officials Conduct:
Personal Appearances - Athletes and officials shall agree to make appearances arranged for media and local sponsors.
Dress Code - Athletes and officials shall abide by the WWA dress codes at designated WWA functions. Riders agree that the Organizers
have the right to control or prohibit advertising material used, worn, or displayed by the rider on site during the contest.
Unsportsmanlike Conduct - Any Athlete or official whose conduct is deemed unsportsmanlike, or who may cause discredit to the WWA,
sponsors, or that person's home country federation, either on or off the contest site during the period of time of the contest may be fined
and/or disqualified, as determined by the WWA Chief Judge. Unsportsmanlike conduct includes, but is not limited to: use of vulgar
language in public, public tantrums, not riding to the fullest potential, failure to attend designated functions or events, consuming alcoholic
beverages during competition, competing under false pretenses, such as not having a WWA membership, concealing significant injuries or
health problems. A rider disqualified in this manner would forfeit prize money for that contest and all points. This paragraph shall not be
construed to deny or limit any individual's legal rights. All fines shall be paid to World Wake Association.. Failure to due so will result in
exclusion from any future contests until fine is paid.
Conduct Fine/Disciplinary Action
Unsportsmanlike conduct $100.00 - $500.00 fine and/or disqualification
No Bib: pre-event or event $100.00 and/or disqualification
Improper dress $100.00
Top 15 on World Series $ 200.00 fine and/or disqualification
Standings if you do not attend the Awards Banquet.
Property Damage and Hotel conduct – Any athlete or official involved in conduct which may cause damage on site, to hotels
and/or any other property damaged by the athlete or official may be disqualified or fined. You will be responsible for all damages
that occur and will be charged accordingly.
Any athlete or official involved in conduct at the host hotel, which is deemed unsportsmanlike conduct, may be disqualified or
fined.
Pre-Event Practice On-site - Permission shall be granted to certain riders pre-selected by the WWA or event organizer for event-related
media appearances and other occasions in the best interest of the event. The amount and type of riders allowed is at the discretion of the
WWA and/or event organizers. Violation of this rule shall result in a fine or disqualification from the contest.
Use of name/likeness- All riders grant to WWA, the non-exclusive right to use Participant's name or likeness in any photographs, television
or motion pictures taken of Participant during the contest week, for the limited purposes of EVENT promotion, broadcast, and news
reporting, and this right to use under this sub-paragraph shall terminate on the first day of the year 2019, except for NBC Sports or other
networks that may continue to rerun broadcasts of contest coverage containing participant's likeness and name.
Safety:
Liability - All WWA Athletes and officials by their participation recognize and accept the possible dangers inherent to Wakesports
competitions, and shall sign a release to this effect before riding or officiating on site. Athletes shall submit proof of WWA membership
covering insurance before participation. The WWA accepts no liability for injury to WWA Athletes during the competition related functions,
while traveling, or in any other capacity, official or otherwise, not mentioned herein. It is the responsibility of any WWA Athlete or official
who discovers a potentially dangerous situation to immediately notify the WWA Staff or event organizer.
Definitions. The person who is participating in wakesports competition or any WWA event shall be referred to hereinafter as “Participant”.
The “Undersigned” means only the Participant when the Participant is age 18 or older OR it means both the Participant and the Participant’s
parent or legal guardian when the Participant is under the age of 18. “Released Parties” means: The World Wake Association (WWA), their
sponsors, event organizer(s), site owner/lessee or any of their respective successors in interest, affiliated organizations and companies,
insurance carriers, agents, employees, representatives, competition officials, assignees, officers, directors, members, and shareholders.
The “Activity” means taking part in wakesports competition or any WWA event, and using wake facilities or boats for any purpose.
Risks of Activity. The Undersigned agree and understand that taking part in the Activity can be HAZARDOUS AND INVOLVES THE
RISK OF PHYSICAL INJURY AND/OR DEATH. The Undersigned acknowledge that the Activity is inherently dangerous and fully realize
the dangers of participating in the Activity. The risks and dangers of the activity include, but are not limited to: negligence of Participant,
water conditions, tides, currents, wakes, collisions with other participants, watercraft and other manmade and natural objects, weather
conditions, capsizing, sinking, exposure to elements, slips and falls, equipment failure and/or defects, operator error, mental distress from
exposure to any of the above, and negligence of others. The Undersigned acknowledge and understand that the description of the risks
listed above IS not complete and that participating in the Activity may be dangerous and may include other risks. further Participant agrees
that prior to participating, Participant will inspect the facilities and equipment to be used, including Participant’s own equipment, and if
Participant believes anything is unsafe will immediately advise his/her coach or supervisor and a competition official, in writing of such
condition(s) and refuse to participate.
Release, Indemnification, and Assumption of Risk. In consideration of the Participant being permitted to participate in the activity, the
Undersigned agree as follows:
In consideration of Participant, or the minor for whom the parent or guardian is signing, being allowed to participate in any way in a
WORLD WAKE ASSOCIATION (hereinafter known as WWA) athletics/sports program and related events and activities, Participant
hereby, for himself/herself, his/her heirs, and successors and, if applicable, for the minor for whom a parent or guardian is signing
does: (1) Agree that prior to participating, Participant will inspect the facilities and equipment to be used, including Participant's own
equipment, and if Participant believes anything is unsafe, Participant will immediately advise his/her coach or supervisor and a
contest official, in writing, of such condition(s) and refuse to participate; (2) Acknowledge and fully understand that each participant
will be engaging in activities that involve risk of serious injury, including permanent disability and death, and severe social and
economic losses which might result not only from Participant's own actions, inaction’s or negligence, and also from the actions,
inaction’s or negligence of others, the rules of play, or the condition of the premises or of any equipment used. Further, that there
may be other risks not known to WWA or not reasonably foreseeable at this time; (3) Assume all the foregoing risks and accept
personal responsibility for the damages following such injury, permanent disability or death; (4) Release, waive, discharge, covenant
not to sue and agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend WWA, its affiliated clubs or other affiliated organizations, their
respective administrators, directors, agents, coaches, and employees, other participants, sponsoring agencies, sponsors,
advertisers, the nationals governing bodies of participating divisions, the contest officials and, if applicable, owners and leasees of
premises used to conduct the event, all of which are hereinafter referred to as "releasees", from any and all liability to Participant, his
or her heirs, relatives and friends for any and all claims, demands, losses or damages on account of injury to person, including
death or damage to property, caused or alleged to be caused in whole or in part by the negligence of the releasees or otherwise; (5)
authorize WWA to seek, on Participant's behalf all reasonable medical and surgical care that might be necessary if Participant is
unable to authorize such care himself/herself as a result of some injury;
Minor Acknowledgment. In the case of a minor Participant, the Undersigned parent or legal guardian acknowledges that he/she is not
only signing this Agreement on his/her behalf, but that he/she is also signing on behalf of the minor and that the minor shall be bound by all
the terms of this Agreement. Additionally, by signing this Agreement as the parent or legal guardian of a minor, the parent or legal guardian
understands that he/she is also waiving rights on behalf of the minor that the minor otherwise may have. The Undersigned parent or legal
guardian agrees that, but for the foregoing, the minor would not be permitted to participate in the Activity. By signing this Agreement without
a parent or legal guardian’s signature, Participant, under penalty of fraud, represents that he/she is at least 18 years of age. If signing as
the parent or guardian of a minor Participant, signing adults represent that they are a legal parent or guardian of the minor Participant.
Medical Care. Undersigned authorize the Released Parties and/or their authorized personnel to call for medical care for Participant or to
transport Participant to a medical facility or hospital if, in the opinion of such personnel, medical attention is needed. Undersigned agree to
pay all costs associated with such medical care and related transportation.
Miscellaneous. The Undersigned further agree and understand: (a) Participant will not engage in any activities prohibited by any
applicable laws, statutes, regulations and ordinances; (b) this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Florida and the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any claim arising out of this Agreement shall be the state courts located in Polk County, Florida and
Undersigned expressly agree and consent to jurisdiction in said courts; (c) Participant grants to WWA, the non-exclusive right to use
Participant’s name or likeness in any photographs, television or motion pictures taken of Participant during, training, competition, demos, or
other WWA event for the purpose of EVENT promotion; (d) This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto
and supersedes any and all prior contracts, arrangements, communications, or representations, whether oral or written, between the parties
relating to the subject matter hereof; and (e) the Undersigned understand and acknowledge that this Agreement is a contract and shall be
binding to the fullest extent permitted by law. If any part of this Agreement is deemed to be unenforceable, the remaining terms shall be an
enforceable contract between the parties. It is the intent of the Undersigned that this agreement shall be binding upon the assignees,
subrogors, distributors, heirs, next of kin, executors and personal representatives of the Undersigned.
Safety Equipment - All contestants shall wear a U.S. Coast Guard – Approved life jacket or a life jacket that will absolutely float a
contestant who is unconscious. A “Wet Suit” jacket shall have a locking device in addition to the zipper closure. A “Pull Over” or “Side
Entry” jacket shall have a locking device, zipper, or a drawstring. All contestants hitting any obstacles in the water must wear a helmet
(protective head gear) is defined as an article of apparel whose manufacture and use is solely for the purpose of protecting the head from
injury.
Fallen Riders - Because of the public nature of some sites, and for the safety of the Athlete, fallen riders shall utilize safety craft in lieu of
swimming and/or walking ashore unless otherwise directed by WWA Representative.
New Sites - In the case of sites new to the WWA, whether they have hosted an event or not, they shall be inspected by the WWA, an
official and/or an athlete representative (if furnished to the WWA at no cost) well in advance of the scheduled competition. This shall be for
the purposes of determining site layouts and special site preperations needed to eliminate any safety hazards. The WWA reserves the right
to make revisions at any time.
Equipment:
Handles, Non-Stretch Ropes, Wakeboards, Wakesurfers, Wakeskates, Helmets - Personal handles, ropes, wakeskates, wakesurfers
and wakeboards are the responsibility of the individual participants. Handles, ropes, wakeskates, wakesurfers and wakeboards are subject
to checks by the officials/dock starter before riding. Helmets are required for wakeboarding and wakeskating if features are used. A helmet
(protective head gear) is defined as an article of apparel whose manufacture and use is solely for the purpose of protecting the head from
injury. If any athlete uses any feature without a helmet they will be disqualified from the WWA Event.
Supplied Bibs - Athletes may be required to wear a WWA-supplied bib during media riding, qualifying, actual competition, and interviews.
The bib will remain the property of the WWA until after the Finals, however it will remain in the Athlete’s possession. If an athlete is not
wearing a bib while competing they can be disqualified and/or fined from the tournament.
Riders must wear their assigned bibs; no borrowing or lending is authorized due to age restriction of some riders unless WWA
management grants permission. Failure to abide may result in possible fine. If a bib is lost and another bib must be supplied, even for a
temporary period of time, a one hundred dollar ($100.00) fee will be charged. No modifications of bibs or addition or deletion of lettering or
logos on bibs are allowed, except as authorized by WWA. Bibs inadvertently damaged during the course of riding will be replaced by WWA
at no cost. If a bib becomes stained or damaged to the point where it no longer looks presentable in the eyes of the WWA, the rider will be
obligated to wear a replacement bib supplied by the WWA.
WWA Supplied Wristbands - Athletes may be required to wear a WWA-supplied wristband at all times on site and event off site functions
as needed. A wristband will be placed on the riders arm at registration and should not be removed until after the event is over. If a
wristband is lost and another wristband must be supplied to the athlete a ten-dollar ($10.00) fee will be charged to the athlete. If wristband is
damaged bring it back to the Director of Registration and new one will be given to the rider at no cost. No borrowing or sharing is
authorized. Failure to abide may result in possible fine.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Membership Requirements- All Athletes must be current competitive members of the WWA. Prior to competing, Athlete must sign the
WWA contract and understand the nature of the sport and it's special risks, particularly in the professional format. Prior to competing,
Athlete must submit to Director of Registration the required forms (Information questionnaire, Contract, Waiver, W9 or W8). It is the
responsibility of the Athlete to register with the WWA -designated person and show proof of WWA membership and qualifications before
riding.
Entry Fee - Entry fee is due at the same time as the entry form. The entry fee per event is indicated on the Official Entry Form, including
any late fees that may apply.
Entry Deadline & Late Fee - Entry deadlines are listed on the Official Entry Form as well on the event web page. A Late Fee must be paid
prior to riding if the entry form (including payment) was not received by the Director of Registration on/or before the date indicated (on the
entry form) as the “2 Week Entry Deadline” or other applicable time table. The final deadline to sign up for a contest is subject to the
Director of Registration. In some instances, a maximum amount of riders that could sign up may be instituted with prior notice from the
Event. After the maximum number is reached, no riders shall be allowed to sign up.
Cancellation: If an entrant desires to cancel his/her entry for whatever reason(s), he/she is required to notify the Director of Registration or
event organizer no later than two weeks prior to the event. If entrant abides by the required cancellation deadline, the entry fee will be
refunded ONLY if the entry cannot be rolled over to another tournament. Cancellation of entry will be accepted only by email in order to be
eligible for the full refund.
Concussion Policy:If the boat crew suspects a rider has a concussion or head injury they will immediately radio for the staff EMT. The
staff EMT will evaluate the athlete and determine if they suspect the rider has a concussion. If the EMT suspects a concussion the rider will
be removed from competition immediately. If the athlete is a minor the WWA staff will notify the parent or guardian at this time.
WWA recommends that the athlete be evaluated by a health care provider experienced in evaluating for a concussion. The athlete will not
be allowed to participate in a WWA event until they provide a written letter from the Healthcare provider giving them clearance to resume
participation.
Fines - All unpaid fines must be paid prior to participating in the Event.
Refund due to Injuries - In the event of illness or injury during the week preceding the event, the affected rider must contact the Director of
Registration. If you do not make contact before your name is listed on the running order you will not receive a refund. Affected rider must
present a signed doctor's excuse to the Director of Registration for review for full refund. Any falsification will be considered
unsportsmanlike conduct. The doctor’s note MUST be received no later than 5pm EST (21) twenty-one days from the start of the
event date in order to receive refund. After that date no refunds will be granted.
AFTER COMPETITION BEGINS: If an Athlete is unable to compete due to an injury, after riding in the qualifying round and/or subsequent
rounds of a contest, his/her spot is left vacant. An Athlete who is unable to compete in a subsequent round shall receive Ranking List points
and placement for the last place position of the round in which they are unable to compete. No replacement rider will be placed in that
position in the next round.
Divisions of Competitions – Divisions of competitions are broken down in age brackets, with the exception of the Pro divisions. Age as of
January 1 of the current year will be used to determine age bracket. The athlete must ride in their age division. The only time an athlete
can ride in another division is when their division is not offered and the Director of Registration approves the move to another division. The
only time another sex can compete with the opposite sex is when their division or event is not offered and the Director of Registration/Chief
Judge approves the move. Athletes can only compete in one division per discipline.
Divisions may be created or merged at the sole discretion of each contest director.
-All divisions except pro are considered amateur age group competitions.
-Only the pro divisions pay
cash prizes.
Pro Men Wakesurf – Anything goes
Pro Women Wakesurf – Anything goes
Open Men Wakesurf - Any age, Anything goes (intended for competitors who exceed the talent level of their respective age bracket. It is
also intended for the competitors who have competed at pro events but did not advance to the semifinal round in any pro event during the
year)
Open Women Wakesurf - Any age, Anything goes (intended for competitors who exceed the talent level of their respective age bracket. It
is also intended for the competitors who have competed at pro events but did not advance to the semifinal round in any pro event during the
year)
Men’s Wakesurf – Ages 18-29 – Anything goes
Women’s Wakesurf – Ages 18-34 – Anything goes
Men’s Beginner Wakesurf – Any Age – Carves, turns, surface tricks such as fire hydrant, sitting duck – No Airs, No more than 1 360
Women’s Beginner Wakesurf – Any Age – Carves, turns, surface tricks such as fire hydrant, sitting duck – No Airs, No more than 1 360
Men’s Wakesurf Over 40 – Anything goes
Men’s Wakesurf – 30-39 – Anything goes
Women’s Wakesurf – Over 35 – Anything goes
Boys – 12 & Under- Anything goes
Girls – 12 & Under- Anything goes
Jr. Men – Ages 13-17 – Anything goes
Jr. Women – Ages 13-17 – Anything goes
Adaptive Sit – Anything goes
Adaptive Stand – Anything goes
New divisions may be opened at the discretion of the event director if there are 4 or more confirmed participants for that division at least
30 days prior to the start of the event. Contact info@thewwa.com in regards to opening a new division.
Competition:
Identical Riding Conditions - Since wakesports are outdoor sports, and are designed to appeal to an audience as well as provide a
competition, time-consuming measures to assure identical and/or ideal riding conditions will be at the sole discretion of the WWA Chief
Judge only. Re-ride requests will not be allowed if they are based on variations in conditions.
Severe Weather/ Rough Water Conditions- Decisions regarding "Severe Weather" shall be the responsibility of the WWA Staff and only
the affected Athletes. The "Severe Weather" provision applies not only to rough water per se, but to any weather and water conditions that
make riding significantly more difficult or may seriously affect performances.
The WWA Staff shall determine any modification to the riding specifications that may be needed in the interest of safety and providing a fair
and attractive event. Such modifications may include but not limited to changes in boat speed, boat pattern, course length, and format.
Once a round of an event has been so designated and riding has started, the "Severe Weather" designation shall apply to all Athletes in that
round, even though conditions may improve.
No event, exhibition, or media demonstration shall be started or continued when electrical storms are in the immediate vicinity.
Event Schedule:
WWA reserves the right to modify the schedule of events to make Pro Men or Pro Women finals the top priority. All changes will be made
to serve the best interest of the event.
The WWA will put forth its best effort to complete each and every competition event and declare winners. At the sole discretion of the WWA
and only as a last resort, rounds may be postponed or combined as necessary to complete events and establish winners.
The entry fee will be returned to the affected Athletes if no rounds of an event are held.
When an event has been terminated and providing at least one full round of that event was held, placements and Ranking List Points will be
calculated. This shall not apply if an event was altered in such a manner as to create an unfair situation. Final decision is solely the
discretion of WWA.
Reduced Prize Money Provision- The WWA reserves the right to reduce the cash awards in the case of a terminated or incomplete event.
WWA reserves the right to cancel the event entirely and pay no prize money or reschedule the event at another time.
Boat speed- Riders must inform the driver the speed he/she desires. It is the rider's responsibility to make this clear. The same rule applies
when referring to what height and length the rope should be attached when applicable.
Rider Preparedness- The rider must be in his/her bindings, with a rope that will
not interfere with the rider being ready to ride when the boat returns to the dock. Any rider who fails to be on immediate hand & in condition
to ride when it is his/her turn in the running order, the rider can be disqualified.
Safety Equipment- All contestants shall wear a U.S. Coast Guard – Approved life jacket or a life jacket that will absolutely float a
contestant who is unconscious. A “Wet Suit” life jacket shall have a locking device in addition to the zipper closure. A “Pull Over” or “Side
Entry” life jacket shall have a locking device, zipper, or a drawstring. All contestants hitting any features in the water must wear a helmet
(protective head gear) is defined as an article of apparel whose manufacture and use is solely for the purpose of protecting the head from
injury.
Disqualified for Safety – Any athlete not wearing an approved life jacket during
their run and any athlete not wearing an approved helmet if hitting obstacles may be disqualified. The athlete will not receive any scores for
the run they are disqualified in and will be rank last place in the heat they are disqualified in.
Communication to the Boat - The rider shall use the standardized WWA signals and not cause the boat to stop, if possible. Deliberate
use of delaying tactics will be considered unsportsmanlike conduct and will subject the rider to fines or disqualification. The following
signals apply in addition to well-known riding signals. Use in combination as applicable
1. Thumb(s) up means go faster
2. Thumb (s) down means go slower
3. Pointing at an item of equipment means a problem with it
4. Pointing back toward object means debris in water
5. Fallen rider must motion to the towboat or safety team to come back to you if injured and/or in danger.
Equipment Failure- For any equipment failure, the rider has five (5) minutes to repair the equipment. The judge will call the Chief Judge for
the clock to begin and he will count down to the judge the time. The Chief Judge will have the final say on if equipment has failed.
Equipment can either be repaired on the boat or at the dock if needed. Time starts either when rider is on the back of the boat for an
on-boat repair or when the rider steps on the dock for a dock repair. If the rider chooses to return to the dock he/she cannot repair the
equipment until the rider is placed on the dock. If the rider starts repairing the equipment on the boat his/her time starts at that moment.
The rider must be on the boat & repair completed before the time elapses or his/her ride is over. The athlete will resume the run at the
same location they were picked up in the water. An equipment failure is counted as a fall.
When the rider realizes they have an equipment failure they can throw the handle. After the repair they will resume their run where they
threw the handle. If an athlete falls and then discovers an equipment failure, they will resume the run at the location of the fall after the
equipment failure has been remedied. If the rider falls and then gets back up and realizes their equipment is broken they have the chance
to throw the handle without being charged with a fall. If the rider tries a maneuver and then realizes their board is broken they will be
charged with a fall.
A rider can also wave off his run if he throws the handle before he/she enters the course before the first pass only if there is a problem such
as the rope being on the wrong ring to fix it with no penalty. A wave off is not counted as a fall.
Reviewing Scores:(All Divisions)
1. There will be no protesting of scores. A rider may request to look over the Full Heat Results page to see the official scoring and
placement of each judge.
2. If the rider has a question about the scores they may ask the Chief Judge.
3. The Chief Judge will then review the rider run sheet and score sheets to ensure there are no discrepancies between the judges. If the
Chief Judge is satisfied with his/her review, he/she will let the rider know his decision. If the chief judge finds a discrepancy on the judges
score sheet he/she will meet with the judge immediately. The judge will make sure that the discrepancy is addressed on his sheet and
he/she will re-evaluate his scores to make sure his/her scores and placements are correct. If the judge makes a change the chief judge will
have the scorekeeper record the change and post new results. There may or may not be a change in placements after a judge changes
his/her score.
4. If the chief judge evaluates the judge's sheets and is unsure of a judge's decision he/she will meet with the judge immediately and ask
them to double check their decision. If they are certain on their decision, the issue is over. The results are final. If the judge makes a
change the chief judge will have the scorekeeper record the change and post new results. There may or may not be a change in
placements after a judge changes his/her score.
5. The Chief Judge will make his/her best efforts to deliver a final decision in a timely manner. The Chief Judge has the final say in all
decisions. No rider is allowed to approach the individual judges. Any rider found harassing judges or using profanity during the protest will
be subject to the code of conduct and applicable fines.
6. If a rider would like to educate themselves for the future they may do so after the event is over. If the rider is present at the end of the
competition the chief judge will make his/her best efforts to let the rider speak with the judges.
7. If a rider has an issue while on the water competing- The rider needs to communicate this to the judges ASAP. The judges will radio
the Chief Judge to discuss the issue. The Chief Judge will take the proper steps to solve the issue. The rider must state the issue either
prior to resuming his/her pass, or, prior to the next athlete beginning their pass.
8. All judges will make their best efforts to be at the Chief Judge's station immediately following the last event each day to answer
questions. There may be situations when the judges are forced to leave the site before or right at the end of the event. Therefore the chief
judge and remaining judges will be responsible for making the final decision.
Judging:
All riders will be judged using the DRIVE system. Judges will be using an Overall Impression system to evaluate/ analyze the rider’s runs.
Judges will be looking for the most versatile rider by breaking it down into difficulty, risk, intensity, variety and execution.
Three or more judges should be used to judge an event. Judges may judge from the boat or from the shore, or a combination of both.
Wakesports are subjectively judged sports. There are no predetermined points for any tricks and each contestant is free to perform
whichever tricks in whatever order he or she desires. There is no maximum or minimum number of hits or tricks required, although riders
are encouraged to make the most of the time and course allotted. Riders are not judged on the number of tricks performed, but rather the
quality. Each trick is scored on its own merits, regardless of technical difficulty and only as part of an entire run.
Scoring:
There will be three judges. Each judge’s score will be worth 33.3 percent of the overall score. The judge will give each rider a score from 1
to 10. The three judges scores will be averaged together to come up with an overall score out of 100. There will be no predetermined
values for placing. Each judge will analyze the rider’s runs based off of the DRIVE criteria and score them appropriately. Judges will be
able to reward as well as penalize riders according to the performance of their runs.
D difficulty
R risk in the run
I intensity
V variety
E execution
Difficulty:
· Trick difficulty (Technical Difficulty)- This is simply defined as how difficult each trick is based on a number of variables. Spins, slides,
rolls or flips including spins, grabbing your board, handle passes and the way a rider lands all subjectively define how difficult certain tricks
are in comparison to others.
● Number of rotations
● Combos (combining tricks, adding spins, grabs etc)
● The direction a rider spins in relation to the trick. Frontside or backside (blind)
● Switch vs. regular stance
● Handle pass vs. landing wrapped
● Grabbed or not
Risk:
● Linking difficult tricks
● Trick difficulty in relation to the course.
· Risk - A rider opening their run with a technically difficult trick would be considered high risk. Risk is also demonstrated by how a rider
performs their tricks and whether or not they display a sense of “putting it all on the line” in order to better their opponents.
Intensity:
· Here judges look for how big or high the rider is taking each of their tricks. This is typically noted on the judges sheet by a plus sign, “+”.
If the trick was incredibly high, and the judge will place 2 plus signs next to it on the judges sheet, “+ +”. The same goes for tricks done small
may have a minus “-“ sign.
· Wake to wake vs. out in the flats
· 270 transfer vs. boardslide
Variety:
● A variety of tricks performed in a pass is what judges are looking for in order to determine the most versatile rider. Wakesports
have categories of tricks such as: straight airs/glides, spins, inverts/flips and rails/obstacles. A good pass should have tricks from
each of these categories and be well rounded. This shows a rider is skilled at all types of maneuvers and therefore showing
variety in their riding.
● Were the tricks all based on the same trick? (roll, roll 2 rev, roll 2 blind, kgb = similar)
● Were the grabs different?
● Did the rider spin both directions?
● Were the rails slid differently? (boardslide v lipslide, heelside v toeside)
Execution:
● Completion of the Trick – This is essentially how the trick was performed in the air or on the rail and that the rider is in control.
Control and poise during the middle of a trick shows the rider is confident in that trick and thus it is well executed. Control and
completion of a trick also means that the rider is performing a trick he/she set out to complete. Example: If a rider attempts to do a
360 and bobbles halfway through the trick and only performs a 180, it shows they are not in control.
● The Landing – This is simply how clean the landing was of the trick. If the rider butt checks, falls of the rail, bonks the rail, drags a
hand, switches 180 to avoid falling, or looks out of control after they have landed this can negatively affect the execution category.
● Perfection - Judges are looking for how “clean” or how perfect EACH trick was performed in the passes. Judges look at the
approach, the body position, rotation of the trick, the axis of the body, head position, handle position, clean grabs not slaps, speed
to which the trick was performed. A rider completing their routine without falling also demonstrates perfection.
● FLOW: Flow is when a rider can execute their tricks together to make them look like they connect smoothly from one to another.
For instance, when a rider lands a trick switch and then cuts into the wake to do the next trick in the same switch position. A rider
that does not flow well would do things like constantly hopping from switch to regular or vice versa in their transition between
tricks, starting the pass late, or finishing a pass early. Dead water is not showing flow or composition.
● Did the rider customize or adapt tricks…make them their own?
General:
Creativity of course management and time is crucial in achieving a smooth, fluid, flowing run. Riders that take the time to plan out their run,
plan the path they are going to take in and around the obstacles/rails will be rewarded in this area. Riders that can link creative
tricks/maneuvers between obstacles will also be rewarded. Judges will be looking for riders that use up the full time, and length of the
course. Wasted water will reflect negatively towards the rider’s score.
Judges will only score tricks successfully landed. Falls will be evaluated into the score based on how you did against the other riders in your
heat. Where a fall happens in a riders run and how many you have can definitely affect the overall look and flow of a riders run which will be
considered in a riders score versus the other riders in the heat.
Ties:
Ties will be broken by placements. The first tie breaker will go to the rider with most first places. Second tie breaker will go to the rider with
most second places and so on until the tie is broken.
Regular Competition Format– Wakesports shall be contested in one, two, three or four rounds including qualifying/quarterfinals, semifinals
and finals. Rounds can be altered due to weather, number of entries, television or any other applicable situation as designated by the
Nationals. The WWA will determine the number or rounds.
All Riders: Wakesports use the heat format. In quarter final rounds, positions
are determined by the Athlete's seeding numbering, which is determined by the aforementioned. All riders must compete in the order of the
posted running order. If an athlete rides out of order his/her scores with not be counted.
Semifinal and Final round seeding are determined by position finish in previous round. If both had the same identical final position in
previous round, you would go back to round before that, and round before that before going to the seeding on the original running order
used for the quarterfinals. (For example, if rider A and rider B both finish first in their heats in the semifinals, and you had to determined
who was the top seed in the finals, you would go the quarterfinals finish, if both A and B finished first their also or if there was no quarterfinal
round, you would go back to the seeding on the original running order used for the quarterfinals.)
Running order–Number of rounds will be determined by number of entries.All riders must compete in the order of the posted running order.
If an athlete rides out of order his/her scores with not be counted.
Ranking List:
General - A Ranking List point system, which awards points for placements, will be used.
Placement Points Placement Points
1
st 100 19
th 18
2
nd 90 20
th 17
3
rd 80 21
st 16
4
th 75 22
nd 15
5
th 70 23
rd 14
6
th 65 24
th 13
7
th 60 25
th 12
8
th 55 26
th 11
9
th 51 27
th 10
10
th 47 28
th 9
11
th 43 29th 8
12
th 39 30
th 7
13
th 35 31
st 6
14
th 31 32
nd 5
15
th 27 33
rd 4
16
th 23 34
th 3
17
th 20 35
th 2
18
th 19 36
th 1
Ties - Due to the use of heats, there will most likely be ties in positions, all Athletes involved in the tie will receive the Ranking List points of
the tied place.
Series Championship - The season series championship when applicable will be determined by combining all points from all of the events
in the individual series. In case of a tie for the top spot, here are the criteria to break the tie: The first tiebreaker is the rider who took home
the most 1st place finishes. The second tiebreaker is the rider who has the most 2nd place finishes. The third tiebreaker is the rider that
finishes highest at the final tour stop.
Event Seeding:
A “snake” seeding method will be used. Example of pattern of heats:
Heat #1: Seeds 6, 7, 18, 24, 25 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Heat #2: Seeds 5, 8, 17, 23, 26 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Heat #3: Seeds 4, 9, 16, 22, 27 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Heat #4: Seeds 3, 10, 15, 21, 28 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Heat #5: Seeds 2, 11, 14, 20, 29 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Heat #6: Seeds 1, 12, 13, 19, 30 (running order; you reverse seeds so higher seed go last)
Other numbers of competitors are determined with the same format.
*Riders in all divisions will first be seeded off the current Nautique Wakesurf Series Ranking followed by all other riders at random. Riders
will be input into the scoring system based on their placement in their division on the ranking. Any ties will first be broken by the most recent
event. If a tie cannot be broken it will be determined randomly by the computer system for seeding. **For the first event of the season,
divisions will be seeded off of the 2018 Nautique U.S. National Wakesurf Championships, then all other riders at random.
In the preliminary rounds, positions are determined by the Athlete’s seeding numbering, which is determined by the ranking list and/or
criteria used by the event organizer. All riders must compete in the order of the posted running order. If an athlete rides out of order his/her
scores with not be counted.
Semifinal and Final round seeding are determined by position finish in the previous round. If both had the same identical final position in the
previous round, you would go back to round before that, and round before that before going to the seeding on the original running order
used for the qualifying round. (For example, if rider A and rider B both finish first in their heats in the semifinals, and you had to determine
who was the top seed in the finals, you would go the quarterfinals finish, if both A and B finished first there also, you would go back to the
seeding on the original running order used for the quarterfinals.)
PRIZE MONEY
Prize Money Breakdown - The Prize Money breakdown will be determined on an event-to-event basis. The breakdown information will be
kept with the Director of Registration for the athletes review.
Prize Money for Ties - When there are ties that are not settled by the above
formulas, the money for the placements in question shall be combined and distributed equally rounded off to the nearest dollar. No extra
prize money beyond the total amount specified shall be awarded.
Dispersing of Prize Money - All money due to the athletes for a particular event
shall be mailed to the athletes within 30 days of all paperwork being received by the WWA office after the tournament to an address
specified by the rider. Prize money will be paid directly to the appropriate rider only, except when a rider files a request with WWA for
his/her prize money to be paid into a trust fund, to a parent or guardian, or to a national federation, etc. No other person will be authorized
to pick up prize money for another rider, unless previously authorized by that rider in writing. Overall prize money will be paid within the first
30 days of the following year.
Prize Money limited to qualified riders – Prize money will be paid to the riders who qualified for the finals as listed on the Prize Money
Breakdown sheet only. No other prize money will be paid to any rider beyond the listed number of riders on the sheet. Example: If the
Prize Money Breakdown sheet list “8” riders, only 8 riders will receive prize money.
Event Format:
WWA Standard Wakesurf Format:
Overview:
Riders will perform a subjectively judged two-pass run, where the boat will travel each pass in a straight path along the course in each
direction. Each Rider will be scored on the total use of the course.
Contestants may perform any number of tricks they choose, in any order they wish within the course unless specified by the chief judge.
Riders will be judged on the difficulty and proficiency of the moves executed, how big they take tricks, variety of tricks performed, technical
difficulty, and the creativity and fluidity of the run.
The Course:
The course should be between approximately 750′ to 900′ or 230-275 meters long which is about 45-60 seconds, marked at either end of
the water by boat course buoys. There will also be a fall buoy positioned three quarters of the way along the course on the second pass. It
is the contestant’s responsibility to be aware of where these buoys are located at each event. The event organizer and/or chief judge may
opt not to use the ¾ buoy.
The Run:
The rider will leave the starting point and scoring will begin when the boat reaches the first course buoy. At the end of the first pass, the
boat will turn after passing the end course buoy to drop the rider, turn around and re-enter the course. Riders will be judged on tricks
initiated within the course. Riders may initiate a move prior to the buoy but must land or complete the move near or at the buoy to receive
credit for the trick. There must be a majority by all scoring judges to discredit a move for “out of course”. Riders must be ready for the boat
to turn immediately after the second course buoy. No re-rides will be awarded for the boat turning or stopping during a trick at the ends of
the course.
The rider will continue their run after their first and second wake fall from the place they fell, unless the fall occurs after the ¾ fall buoy. A
third wake fall finishes the run immediately.
Each contestant is free to perform tricks in whatever order they desire as permitted in their division. There is no maximum or minimum
number of tricks required, although riders are encouraged to perform big, clean, well executed, powerful tricks. Riders should emphasize
quality over quantity, while demonstrating the range and limits of their abilities. These abilities should include, but are not limited to,
performing a variety of moves, taking each move to its limit, and showing creativity and fluidity in the routine. Every trick the rider performs
will be evaluated in the scoring of the routine. Each contestant will be judged only against the other riders in the heat, using the subjective
categories ONLY to arrive at a single combined score.
Communication:
It is the sole responsibility of the rider to communicate to the driver before leaving the dock to verify the proper speed of the boat. Riders
must also communicate any specifics i.e.…side of the wake that will be surfed, transfers, etc. There will be NO re-rides due to
miscommunication.
Falls:
A rider may have one out of course fall only before the start of his/her first pass. A fall between the first and second pass, being the first out
of course fall, may also be used as the riders out of course fall. A rider may switch boards between courses.
Each rider may also have one handle throw before the start of his/her first pass. This will count as their one out of course fall. A rider
attempting a trick out of the course will count as an in course fall. The out of course fall cannot be used as a warm up.
A rider can have a maximum of three falls during a run. A third fall will end the run. Should a fall occur, the driver will pick up the rider as
quickly as possible. The rider will not be picked up after a fall that occurs beyond the three quarters point of the second pass. The point
after which a rider will not be picked up will be clearly marked with a buoy. Upon a third wake or ¾ buoy fall, the run is over and the boat will
return to the starting point.
Judging:
Each contestant shall be judged on one complete, individual run. That run will be compared against other runs from the same heat and
ranked only against those runs. There are no predetermined points for any tricks. The judging of this routine begins when the rider leaves
the dock and ends when:
a)The time/run allotted expires
b)The rider reaches the maximum number of falls allowed
Scoring:
There will be three judges all writing down the riders run. Each judge’s score will be worth 33.3 percent of the overall score. The judge will
give each rider a score from 1 to 10 taking into account the D.R.I.V.E criteria. The three judges scores will be averaged together to come
up with an overall score out of 100. There will be no predetermined values for placing. Each judge will analyze the rider’s runs based off of
the DRIVE criteria and score them appropriately. Judges will be able to reward as well as penalize riders according to the performance of
their runs.
D – difficulty
R – risk
I – intensity
V – variety
E – execution
Difficulty:
Trick difficulty (Technical Difficulty) – This is simply defined as how difficult each trick is based on a number of variables. Spins, carves,
turns, airs, grabbing your board and the way a rider lands all subjectively define how difficult certain tricks are in comparison to others.
● Number of rotations
● Combos (combining tricks, adding spins, grabs etc)
● The direction a rider spins in relation to the trick. Frontside or backside (blind)
● Switch vs. regular stance
● Grabbed or not
Risk:
● Linking difficult tricks
● Trick difficulty in relation to the course.
● Speed, Power and Flow of trick(s)
● A rider opening their run with a technically difficult trick would be considered high risk.
Risk is also demonstrated by how a rider performs their tricks and whether or not they display a sense of “putting it all on the line” in order to
better their opponents.
Intensity:
Judges look for how big or high the rider is taking each of their tricks as well as the speed, power and commitment that goes into the trick.
This is typically noted on the judges sheet by a plus sign, “+”. If the trick was incredibly powerful, and the judge will place 2 plus signs next
to it on the judges sheet, “+ +”. The same goes for tricks done small or weak may have a minus “-“ sign.
Variety:
● A variety of tricks performed in a pass is what judges are looking for in order to determine the most versatile rider.
Wakesurfing has categories of tricks such as: airs, turns, carves, tech tricks, etc. Surfing both frontside and backside as well
as switch and regular or even on different styles of boards. A good wakesurf pass should have tricks from each of these
categories and be well rounded. This shows a rider is skilled at all types of maneuvers and therefore showing variety in their
riding.
● Were the tricks all based on the same trick?
● Were the grabs different?
● Did the rider spin both directions?
● Did the rider show more than one ‘style’ of wakesurfing?
Execution:
● Completion of the Trick – This is essentially how the trick was performed and that the rider is in control. Control and poise
during the middle of a trick shows the rider is confident in that trick and thus it is well executed. Control and completion of a
trick also means that the rider is performing a trick he/she set out to complete. Example: If a rider attempts to do a 360 and
bobbles halfway through the trick and over-spins it shows they are not in control.
● The Landing/Trick execution – This is simply how clean the landing/completion was of the trick. If the rider butt-checks,
drags a hand, over rotates to avoid falling, or looks out of control after they have completed a trick this can negatively affect
the execution category.
● Perfection – Judges are looking for how “clean” or how perfect EACH trick was performed in the passes. Judges look at the
approach, the body position, rotation of the trick, the axis of the body, head position, clean grabs not slaps, speed to which
the trick was performed. A rider completing their routine without falling also demonstrates perfection.
● FLOW: Flow is when a wakesurfer can execute their tricks together to make them look like they connect smoothly from one
to another. For instance, when a rider lands a trick switch and then approaches the wake to do the next trick in the same
switch position. A rider that does not flow well would do things like constantly hopping from switch to regular or vice versa in
their transition between tricks, starting the pass late, or finishing a pass early. Dead water is not showing flow or
composition.
● Did the rider customize or adapt tricks…make them their own?
General:
Creativity of course management and time is crucial in achieving a smooth, fluid, flowing run. Riders that take the time to
plan out their run, plan the path they are going to take will be rewarded in this area. Riders that can link creative
tricks/maneuvers will also be rewarded. Judges will be looking for riders that use up the full time, and length of the course.
Wasted water will reflect negatively towards the rider’s score.
Judges will only score tricks successfully landed. If a rider falls out of the wave after a trick a majority from the judges will determine if the
trick counts. In general if a rider comes back forward on the wave after completing a trick it will count as landed, however, execution will be
considered. Falls are simply a missed trick and course time is lost. You will not be judged down for falls, but this can take away from the
overall look and flow of a riders run. Riders are allowed 2 falls. The run ends on 3rd fall. Riders may use two different boards in their run.
Boards may be swapped between passes or during a pick up from a fall. Riders may request transfers on the waves at any point during
their run. There is no limit to the number of transfers. There will be no re-rides for miscommunications on transfers.