GENERAL RULES FOR WORLD SERIES OF WAKE SURFING
1. World Series of Wake Surfing Mission and Purpose:
To create a family-friendly community atmosphere promoting
the sport of wake surfing. To make life better through water
sports.
2. Safety and Equipment
1. The safety of all participants and spectators is our number one priority. There is an
inherent danger in any water sport, so we ask that all participants, spectators, and
vendors follow all rules and instructions given to them by the chief judge or event
organizer.
2. All participants in the World Series of Wake Surfing are required to complete the
Safe Sport Course. This is to include all riders, judges, staff, organizers & volunteers. This
is a free course, please see the link below and is available in many languages.
https://safesporttrained.org/#/public-dashboard
3. Fin Size: all boards must be inspected at the time of rider check-in.
i. SURF STYLE- The fin size for Surf Style in the Semi-Pro and Pro Divisions is a
minimum 4 inches. That is the minimum for two primary fins on the board.
Additional trailer fins smaller than 4 inches are allowed. If the fin does not
meet the standard size of 4 plus inches for surf style, semi-pro and pro
divisions., the rider will be given a chance to correct and have the board
reinspected before the athlete’s run by the chief judge. If correction is not
made, the rider will be banned from the event and given a zero for the
competition ranking. Youth division is excluded from this rule.
ii. SKIM STYLE- not to exceed 2” Max number of fins 2.
If board or fins do not meet requirements, the rider will be given a chance to
correct and have the board reinspected before the athlete’s run.
Reinspection of board must be completed by the chief judge at least 30
minutes prior to division run. If correction is not made, the rider will be
banned from the event and given a zero for the competition ranking.
4. Wax/Adhesive: The board will be inspected at the time of rider check-in, inspector's
hand will be placed on the board in any area where the riders fee could contact the
board. If the board lifts in the air when the inspector's hand is lifted, the rider will be
2
asked to remove the wax/adhesive and have the board reinspected or be ban from
riding in competition and given zero for ranking points. If you have any very sticky wax
on your feet or board the athlete is expected to be cautious not to transfer any product
to the staging boat, jet ski, and competition boat.
5. Injury Policy: In the event of an injury to a competitor, spectator, or event staff, the
chief judge should notify onsite medical and security personnel, or locate trained, ablebodied volunteers.
i. Dail 911 or emergency services number for the venue
ii. Follow the Protocol for Management of Concussion injury, if a concussion
injury is suspected.
iii. Retrieve emergency contact info or if minor notify parents.
iv. Chief judge or WSWS staff member to get names, statements, and contact
information from all involved or witnesses to the accident.
6. Any Athlete that fails to follow all safety rules and regulations above, will be
disqualified from the the event and given a zero for their event scoring.
3. Concussion Policy:
1. If the boat crew suspects a rider has a concussion or head injury, they will
immediately radio for the staff EMT. Athlete will be evaluated and if it is suspected that
the rider has a concussion, the rider will be removed from. competition immediately and
recommended that the athlete be further evaluated by a professional health care
provider. If the athlete is a minor, the parent or guardian will be notified immediately
and asked that the athlete be taken to the healthcare provider for further evaluation.
Athlete will not be allowed to participate in the WSWS event until the athlete has a
written release from a healthcare provider stating that the athlete is cleared to resume
participation in the event.
4. Refund Due to Medical:
1. In the event of injury, the affected rider must contact the Chief Judge or Chief WSWS
event organizer, as soon as possible with a minimum of 48 hours prior to check-in and
must provide a doctor’s note to be considered for a full registration fee refund.
5. Cancellation of Entry:
1. If an entrant desires to cancel his/her entry for whatever reason(s), he/she is
required to notify the Director of Registration or event organizer no later than two
weeks prior to the event. If an entrant abides by the required cancellation deadline, the
entry fee will be refunded ONLY if the entry cannot be rolled over to another
tournament. Cancellation of entry will be accepted only by email in order to be eligible
for the full refund.
3
6. Liability:
1. All World Series of Wake Surfing (WSWS) athletes and officials by their participation
recognize and accept the possible dangers inherent to wake sports competitions and
shall sign a release to this effect before riding or officiating on site. Athletes shall submit
proof of WWA membership covering insurance before participation. The WSWS accepts
no liability for injury to athletes during the competition or related functions while
traveling, or in any other capacity, official or otherwise, not mentioned herein. It is the
responsibility of any WSWS athlete or official who discovers a potentially dangerous
situation to immediately notify the chief judge, WSWS head organizer, or event staff.
7. Competitors:
1. All competitors entering any event sanctioned by the WSWS must be a WWS
member. https://www.thewwa.com/membership-info
2. The equipment of all competitors shall be subject to inspection and review by the
Chief judge or WSWS event organizer. Inspection of equipment does not classify
personal equipment to be safety qualified only event standard requirements. All
competitors are responsible for their own equipment and safety.
3. All competitors shall be required to wear a Personal Flotation Device or comp vest
that will float the competitor in the event the competitor becomes incapacitated. It is
the rider's responsibility to ensure that their vest is adequate.
4. The athlete is responsible for ensuring that their equipment is in proper order to
ensure the safety of the rider and all participants during the competition.
5. All riders must be on-site and ready to compete 2 hour before their posted start time
for their division except for the first division of the day. The first division of the day is
required to be there 30 minutes before the first scheduled rider of the day. Any division
can start up to 90 minutes before the posted start time as well as up to 60 minutes past
the posted start time.
6. If a rider misses their ride to the staging area or run, the rider will not be allowed to
ride their run and will receive a zero score for their run that day and/or be disqualified
from the event.
7. It is the responsibility of the Competitor to be at the starting dock or area and check
in with the dock starter, at the stated times above.
8. If bibs/jerseys are supplied by the event organizer, the bib/jersey must be worn by
the athlete at the time of run. Failure to have bib/jersey will result in disqualification and
zero score for their run.
9. It is the responsibility of each rider to know the location of both the start and end
buoy.
10. For the safety of all, there is absolutely no contact with the comp boat except if it is
due to a boat malfunction or if the athlete is asked to board the boat. Exceptions may
be required of adaptive competitors. If the rider has contact with the boat for any other
reason other than boat malfunction, the rider will be disqualified.
4
11. No rider is to approach division judges verbally or electronically, ONLY CHIEF JUDGE
CAN BE APPROACHED.
i. If a rider does approach the division judge, the rider will be disqualified from
the event and given a zero for the event ranking score.
12. Any violation of the above rules will disqualify the competitor from the event and
possibly any future events.
13. It is recommended that all competitors take the judging course to understand how
they will be judges.
8. Boats and Drivers:
1. All boat drivers, Jet Ski, and Pontoon drivers must have a boating license and have
taken the Safe Sport Course. https://safesporttrained.org/#/public-dashboard
2. All vessels must be Coast Guard safety equipped.
3. The competition boat must have a first aid kit and a throw cushion.
4. Alcohol beverages shall not be permitted in any competition vessel.
9. Unsportsmanlike Conduct:
1. Any athlete, family member, sponsor, or event organizer, either on or off the contest
site during the period of the contest may be fined and or disqualified to be determined
by either the Chief Judge or WSWS head organizer regarding unsportsmanlike conduct.
i. Unsportsmanlike conduct includes but is not limited to the use of vulgar
language in public, failure to check-in before your run, not riding to the
fullest potential, failure to attend designated check-ins or any conduct that
would or could cause harm to the image of the host or the sport of wake
surfing.
ii. Unsportsmanlike conduct includes action on or off the competition site,
before, during, or after the competition, failing to attend designated
meetings or functions. Any public tantrum, or consumption of alcoholic
beverages prior to your event run could result in sanctioning for the current
event or future events.
iii. Any bullying or taunting of fellow competitors, sponsors, judges, volunteers,
or host will not be tolerated.
2. Fines for certain conduct---
i. Unsportsmanlike conduct: $250.00-$500.00 fine
ii. Unauthorized approach of a division judge: $250.00 fine
iii. Improperly dressed: given a chance to change or zero for run score plus
$100.00 fine.
iv. Non-attendance to a mandatory meeting(s) rider will receive zero for 1st-day
runs and a $200.00 fine.
5
10. Severe Weather Conditions/Rough Water Conditions:
1. Since wake sports are outdoor sports and are designed to appeal to an audience as
well as provide competition, time-consuming measures to ensure identical and/or ideal
riding conditions will be at the sole discretion of the Chief Judge only. Re-ride requests
will not be allowed if they are based on variations in conditions within a division.
2. Decisions regarding “Severe Weather” shall be the responsibility of the WSWS Staff,
the Chief Judge, and only the affected athletes. The “Severe Weather” provision applies
not only to rough water conditions and weather conditions that make riding significantly
more difficult or may seriously affect performance or put riders in harm's way.
3. Wind and Lightning: the chief judge and WSWS Staff shall be responsible for
suspending the competition when adverse weather conditions, such as lightning or wind
pose an unreasonable risk to health or life at or near the competition venue.
4. No event shall be started or continued when electrical storms are in the immediate
vicinity. There is a mandatory 30-minute delay from the last lightning strike until all clear
is issued to resume competition.
5. The WSWS Staff and Chief Judge shall determine any modification to the riding
specifications that may be needed in the interest of safety and providing a fair and
attractive event. Such modifications may include but are not limited to course pattern
and course length. Once a round of an event has been so designated and riding has
started, the “Severe Weather” designation shall apply to all athletes in that round, even
though conditions may improve.
6. The WSWS will put forth its best effort to complete every competition event and
declare winners. At the sole discretion of the WSWS and only as a last resort, rounds
may be postponed or combined as necessary to complete events and establish winners.
7. When an event has been terminated and providing that at least one full round of the
event was held, placements and ranking list points will be calculated. This shall not
apply if an event was altered in such a manner as to create an unfair situation. The final
decision is solely at the discretion of the WSWS.
11. Division of Competition:
1. Age as of January 1st of the current year will be used to determine age bracket.
2. Division of competitions are broken down by gender, age, and skill level.
3. All athletes must compete under their sex assigned at birth.
4. Athletes can only compete in one division per discipline.
i. If the athlete switches divisions mid-season, all prior scores will be dropped,
and new scoring will be started in that division for the remained of the
season.
5. Pro prize purse minimum per event level must be met. If an organizer chooses so,
any excess funding may be given to other divisions or Pros. This is completely at the
discretion of the event host/organizer.
6
6. WSWS has 19 divisions.
i. Masters’ men & women (separate by gender) both Surf & Skim
1. 35 plus years of age
ii. Pro men & Women (separate by gender) both Surf & Skim
1. Pro Card Invite Criteria
a. Podiumed at Centurion World Wake Surfing Championship in
semi-pro division prior year.
b. Ranked in the top 3 in Semi-Pro in WSWS in the previous
season.
c. Exceptions: An Amateur athlete that exhibits extraordinary
skill may make a formal request to skip the requirements,
ultimately the Semi-Pro Division to be granted their Pro Card.
These situations will be looked at on a case-by-case basis and
must be submitted via email to info.wsws@centurionsupreme.com
iii. Semi Pro men & women (separate by gender) both Surf & Skim
iv. Amateur men & women (separate by gender) both Surf & Skim
v. Adaptive men & women seated, standing, and prone are combined, unless
we have more than two athletes per style, in that case, we will separate
them by physicality.
vi. Youth boys and Youth Girls (separated by gender) combined Surf & Skim
1. 12 years or under
12. Boat Settings:
1. Course Length
i. Minimum of 45 seconds to a maximum of 55 seconds
ii. Baseline settings per event will be announced by Chief judge via rider
information email and at the rider check-in meeting.
2. The baseline setting allows for the rider to adjust only the speed and/or center tab.
It is the rider’s responsibility to make sure that this is clearly communicated to the boat
driver and head boat judge in the boat at the time of run.
3. Any protest related to speed must be made by the competitor at the time it occurs.
13. Communication with the Boat:
1. Thumb(s) up means go faster.
2. Thumb(s) down means go slower.
3. Pointing at an item of equipment means a failure with it.
4. Pointing back toward an object means debris in water.
5. A fallen rider needing assistance is to wave hand in the air notifying the boat, head
judge, and pickup vessel that the rider needs assistance.
6. Rollers can be called out by the Boat Driver, head boat judge or rider. The rider must
clearly and immediately call out by saying “ROLLERS” and hand-gesture rolling waves
however, if the rider calls out roller, rider should continue riding pass in case the roller
7
call is denied by the head boat judge. The boat driver or head boat judge will wave their
hand high indicating turning around, roller accepted, or point down course indicating
roller declined. The boat driver or head boat judge will signal to the rider roller is
coming by calling out ROLLER and hand gesture rollers and turning around.
14. Equipment Failure:
1. For any equipment failure, the rider has five (5) minutes to repair the equipment or
replace it with an approved piece of equipment. The head boat judge will call the Chief
Judge and the Chief Judge will determine if the equipment has failed and if the rider has
the opportunity to repair or replace it. The clock countdown starts once the rider is
either on the competition boat or back at the starting dock. The rider will resume the
run at the same location failure occurred if they can rectify the issue in time.
15. Competition Course Run
1. The rider is responsible for knowing where the judge tent, dock check-in, and start
and end course buoys are located on the event site and waterway.
2. To start the run, the rider will be picked up by boat at the designated starting area
giving the rider and boat enough distance to get full speed and wave formed before
hitting the start buoy.
3. Competitors must choose which side they will ride (starboard or port) at registration
and must confirm with the driver what side they will be riding on before being pulled up.
4. The rider is on the course when the rider reaches the start buoy.
5. The rider is off course when the rider passes the end buoy.
i. If the trick is started before the end buoy, and completed past the end buoy
trick will be counted in scoring.
ii. Once a rider has passed the end buoy, the rider is to cease all tricks or
combos in a reasonable time. follow behind the boat to set up for a second
pass. Rider to fall off wave at designated startup area or when waved off by
the boat crew. The boat turns around to bring tow rope and pick up rider for
the second pass.
iii. If the rider falls just before the end buoy and the boat driver does not feel
that they will have enough time to get the boat up to full speed, the boat
driver will continue past the buoy while the pickup vessel takes the rider to
the end starting point.
iv. On the second fall, per pass, no matter where on the course, the rider will be
picked up and taken to the end buoy starting point for the next pass. If a
second fall occurs during the return run, the rider will be picked up and
returned to the starting/check-in dock.
v. After a fall, a competitor may only swim to their board. However, if your
board moves far away from where you fall, we prefer to call the jet-ski to
bring your board to you. If the rider swims back up the course to increase
8
course length, the rider may be disqualified and given a zero score for their
run for that day. .
6. Transfers are NOT allowed.
7. Total number of falls 2 per pass. On the 2nd fall of the first pass, the rider will be
picked up and brought to the end of the course to bin their second pass. On 2nd fall of
the second pass rider will be picked up and taken back to the starting dock or shore no
matter where that fall occurs. That concludes the athlete's total run 4 falls in total, 2 per
pass. Falls before the start buoy on both passes count with or without the rope, unless
the boat driver or head boat judge on the boat deems it driver error.
8. In the event of a boat malfunction and a backup competition boat must be
substituted in the middle of a division, the entire division will be rerun.
9. In the event the wave was not formed before the buoy or is set to the wrong side for
the athlete, it is an automatic rerun. The athlete will be told to fall off the wave and will
be brought back to the starting point of that pass.
16. Judging:
1. All riders will be judged using the DRIVE scoring criteria. The elements are Difficulty,
Risk, Intensity, Variety, and Execution.
2. Three judges will be used to judge each division.
3. All judges must complete judge training.
4. Recordings may or may not be used by judges for review of riders' runs.
5. Judging a competitor’s run begins when the competitor enters the course and drops
the rope, whichever occurs later, and ends when the rider exits the course on the second
pass or uses the final fall allowed under the event’s competition format.
6. All Judges for a division need to stay on property for at least 1 hour after judging a
division in case the is a question when inputting judges' scores.
7. It is the Judge's responsibility to notify the Chief Judge if they have a conflict of
interest in judging an athlete in a division they are scheduled to judge for.
17. Scoring:
1. Guidelines for scoring entries are provided below. Data Entry is done on shore.
2. After each competitors run each judge independently and legibly, record the score
for each rider in each subjective category relative to that judge’s scores in each category
given to the benchmark competitor.
3. Judges should sum the total of each subjective category on the scoring sheet. 10
points per category, maximum total per judge is 50 points
4. At the end of each Division, or each heat of a division, each judge will give his score
sheets to the scribe and place them in the provided envelope. It is the scribe's
responsibility to turn in the envelope to the dock starter or Chief judge.
5. The chief judge or designated representative shall input data from each Judge’s
scoring sheet into the WSWS Excel spreadsheet.
9
6. Division scores to be posted within 2 hours of the end of the last rider of that
division.
18. Ranking:
Placement Points Placement Points
 1
st 100 19th
 18
 2
nd
 90 20th
 17
 3
rd 80 21st
 16
 4
th 75 22nd 15
 5
th 70 23rd 14
 6
th 65 24th
 13
 7
th 60 25th 12
 8
th 55 26th
 11
 9
th 51 27th
 10
 10th 47 28th
 9
 11th 43 29th 8
 12th 39 30th
 7
 13th 35 31st
 6
 14th 31 32nd 5
 15th 27 33rd
 4
 16th 23 34th
 3
 17th 20 35th
 2
 18th 19 36th
 1
10
19. Reviewing Scores:
1. If the rider has a question about the scores, they may ask the Chief Judge only.
2. The Chief judge will then review the rider scribe sheet and judges' score sheets to
ensure there are no discrepancies between the judges. The Chief judge may gather the
judging team for a review. If the Chief judge is satisfied with his/her review, he/she will
let the rider know the decision. If there is a discrepancy on the score sheets, the Chief
judge will have a meeting with division judges immediately. Discrepancy will be
addressed with the division judge, and he/she will re-evaluate his/her scores to make
sure his/her scores and placement are correct. If there is a change made by the judging
team the scores will be changed and post new results.
3. All division judges must stay on-site and be available to meet at the judging tent if
requested, for at least one hour after the final division runs.
4. The Chief Judge and/or Chief WSWS Organizer has the final say in all decisions. No
rider is allowed to approach the individual judges. Any rider found harassing judges or
using profanity during the protest will be subject to fines and being evicted from
participating in the event and receive a zero for ranking score. In addition, an athlete or
parent of a minor athlete can be formally sanctioned by WSWS, and the rider banned for
the season from the tour in extreme cases or repeated violations.
5. If an athlete would like to file a formal protest on a ruling or judging, there is a $100
fee to be paid to the WSWS organization.
6. If a rider would like to educate themselves for the future, they may request a review
with the Chief Judge AFTER the event day is over and not during the competition.
20. JUDGING CATEGORIES: D.R.I.V.E. System
Difficulty:
· Trick difficulty (Technical Difficulty of maneuvers)– This is simply defined as how
difficult each trick is based on several variables. Spins, slides, rolls or including spins,
grabbing your board, and the way a rider lands all subjectively define how difficult
certain tricks are in comparison to others.
• Number of rotations
• Combos (combining tricks, adding spins, grabs, etc.)
• The direction a rider spins in relation to the trick.
• Switch vs. regular stance.
• Grabbed or not.
• Maneuvers where the board and body rotate in opposite directions
11
• Degree of Difficulty-the difficulty of each maneuver is based on any
number of variables. Judges will use these to subjectively determine how
difficult certain maneuvers are in comparison to others.
• Technical difficulty-the difficulty of each maneuver is based on any
number of variables. Judges will use these to subjectively determine how
difficult certain maneuvers are in comparison to others. Variables
reflecting “Degree of Difficulty” include, but are not limited to:
• Stance: Switch vs normal and heelside vs toeside (approach and
finish for surface maneuvers or takeoff and landing for aerial
maneuvers).
• Combinations: Multiple maneuvers linked together and the
sequence in which they are performed. Combos are defined as
tricks linked together without pumping. The judges will not count
a rollout half-cab or a body virial out at the back of the wave
utilized as a save, as a combo. Whether or not something counts
as a combo is up judging team on the boat. In addition, if a rider
falls on the last trick in a combo, the entire combination of tricks is
not counted as executed.
• Embellishments: Grabbed maneuvers and types of grabs; stalled
maneuvers; tweaked, boned or off-axis maneuvers.
• Board direction: Maneuvers performed with board revert vs
forward. And switch revert.
• Innovation: Performing a maneuver that has never been seen.
Introducing a new method of performing a maneuver.
Risk:
A rider opening both of their runs with a technically difficult trick or combinations of
tricks would be considered high risk. Risk is also demonstrated by how a rider
performs their tricks and whether they display a sense of “putting it all on the line” in
order to better their opponents.
• Linking difficult tricks, combos in the riders run.
• An Athlete executing their first maneuver on course in both of their passes.
• Executing difficult maneuvers relative to the course.
Intensity:
Judges look for how big or high the rider is taking each of their tricks. This is typically
noted on the judges' sheet by a plus sign, “+”. If the trick was incredibly high, and the
12
judge will place 2 plus signs next to it on the judges’ sheet, “++”. The same goes for
tricks done small and may have a minus “-“ sign.
• Judges are looking for how aggressive, big or fast an athlete goes.
• How high the athlete and board leave the water.
• How fast the board spins.
• The pace of tricks being thrown
• Speed into tricks.
Variety:
• A variety of tricks performed in a pass is what judges are looking for to
determine the most versatile rider. A good pass should have tricks from
each of these categories and be well-rounded. This shows a rider is skilled
at all types of maneuvers and therefore shows variety in their riding.
• Utilizing different grabs.
• Spinning in both directions, backside and frontside.
• Perform a diverse type of maneuvers, balance tricks, turns ollies, airs, shuvs,
and rotations.
• The athlete performs different types of maneuvers, or were they all based
on the same maneuver? For example, the surface 360, 540, 720 are all
similar, as each is based on a surface board rotation in the same direction.
• Executing maneuvers in different stances, normal and switch, heelside and
switch toeside.
• Performing rotational maneuvers, board and/or body, in both directions.
Backside, frontside, or blind.
• Judging teams reserve the right to utilize our Variety Calculation tool. This
WSWS Spreadsheet calculates board and body rotations in all directions. It
highlights a rider’s unique tricks in comparison to other athletes in that
specific division and repeated tricks the rider performs in the run.
Execution:
Judges are looking for how “Clean” or how well executed EACH individual maneuver is
done, as well as execution throughout the ENTIRE competition run. Judges should
consider the flow and composition of the athlete’s overall run, and whether the run
was performed with confidence, and in an aesthetically pleasing manner. Other
considerations for “Execution” include but are not limited to:
• The ease in which tricks are performed.
• How fluid the overall run is.
13
• Making the tricks look easy, clean, and effortless.
• The athlete’s ability to maintain body and board stability while performing
each maneuver.
• The athlete’s ability to show fluidity by performing maneuvers smoothly
and easily.
• The landing – This is simply how clean the landing was of the trick.
• The athlete’s ability to perform maneuvers with confidence and with an
effortless technique (style)
• Perfection – Judges are looking for how “clean” or how perfect EACH trick
was performed in the passes. Judges look at the approach, the body
position, the rotation of the trick, the axis of the body, head position, clean
grabs not slaps, and speed to which the trick was performed. A rider
completing their routine without falling also demonstrates perfection.
• The athlete’s ability to prove the mastering of a maneuver.
• The athlete’s ability to show control over body and board with solid grabs;
steady landings; lengthy stalls; and proper positioning before, during, and
after each maneuver.
• Did the rider customize or adapt tricks…make them their own?
21. General:
• Creativity, of course, management, and time are crucial in achieving a smooth, fluid, flowing
run.
• Judges will only score tricks successfully landed. The rider must show complete control to
have executed the trick and successfully stay in the wave.
• Judges will provide subjective scoring of each rider based on their overall opinion of how
well the rider performed his routine in relation to each of the established same divisions.
Scores shall be given by each Judge on a scale of 1-10, in increments of .1 (on the tenth) for
each of the 5 subjective categories.
• Within a round of heats, and for the entirety of the competition event, the performance of
all competitors in each Division should be evaluated by the same judging team.
• The first rider in each division will be used as a benchmark by which the remaining
Competitors will be judged. The judging teams score do not have to have the same score
for this athlete, however the judging team should discuss a score range in each fie DRIVE
categories.
• Each judge will score the said rider and at the end of the run, the Judging Team will confer
and attempt to agree upon the subjective score benchmark for each subjective component.
As such, the first rider in each division will have almost identical subjective scores from each
Judge. It is not required that the subjective benchmark score of the first rider be the same
for each subjective category.
• Each division, and each heat of a division, must establish a separate subjective score
benchmark using the first rider in the Division or heat.
• subjective scoring criteria, in comparison to other riders within the division or heat.
14
All Riders: All riders must compete in the order of the posted running order. If an
athlete rides out of order his/her scores will not be counted.
Semifinal and Final round seeding are determined by the position finished in the previous round.
Registration Capping1. 1 Day Event 60 riders
2. 2 Day Event 90 riders
3. 3 Day Event 120 riders
4. 120+ riders Event must be a 4-day event.
5. Once each division is maxed out, athletes can still register and will be put on a wait
list. Wait list athletes will be let in the competition based on number of riders and
at the discretion of the chief judge and event organizer. Registration closes when
the capping number of riders is met or 2 weeks prior to the event.
6. The maximum number of riders per division is 8 unless there are divisions that are
not maxed out then event organizer and chief Judge can if they choose to make the
max total, 10 in another division.
7. Minimum number of riders per division is 2.
Running Order1. The number of rounds will be determined by the number of entries. All
riders must compete in the order of the posted running order. If an athlete
rides out of order, his/her scores will not be counted.
2. Day 1 running order to be posted and emailed to all riders, judges, and
volunteers 4 days before event minimum.
a. Any objections to the running order must be submitted to the Chief
judge and WSWS event organizer within 24 hours of the order being
posted.
b. Once the running order has been posted, no refunds will be issued
unless in a medical emergency. See above Refunds due to Medical.
c. Division Scores to be posted within 2 hours of the last rider of that
division. PDF to be posted on site. PDF of scoring to be emailed to
SGonzales@centurion-supreme.com for social media posting
3. Final round seeding are determined by the position finished in the previous
round.
4. Subsequent running orders to be posted and emailed to riders, juges, and
volunteers within 4 hours of the last rider of the day.
5. The WSWS will put forth its best effort to complete every competition event and
declare a winner at the sole discretion of the WSWS and only as a last resort,
rounds may be postponed or combined as necessary to complete the events and
establish winners.
15
6. When an event has been terminated and providing at least one full round of that
event was held, placements and ranking list points will be calculated using that
single run as final. This shall not apply if an event was altered in such a manner
as to create an unfair situation. Final decision is solely the discretion of WSWS.
22. Prize Money Breakdown
1. Bronze Purse 3K for pro division $750 per division
2. Silver Purse 5K for Pro division $1,250.00 per division Live feed required.
3. Gold Purse 10K for Pro division $2,500.00 per division Live feed required.
4. Platinum Purse 25K for Pro division $6,250.00 per division Live feed required.
5. Diamond Purse 50K for Pro division $12,500.00 per division Live feed required.
6. All prize money is due to the athlete at the time of the event or mailed to the athlete
within 30 days of all paperwork being received, W9 or Ben8.
23. Worlds Invite Criteria
1. Riders' top 4 scores will be used to calculate Invite.
2. The lowest score dropped, and the average of the 3 top scores will give the athlete
his/her ranking to be invited to Worlds.
3. The top 10 ranking in each division will be invited to Worlds, given the athlete met the
event minimum criteria.
4. Reigning Champion for pro division only will be invited back to defend their crown if
they have competed in at least 3 stops in the WSWS series no matter what their ranking.
5. Invite ranking will be used for Worlds seeding.
6. First round of invites goes out athletes will have 72 hours to accept and register.
7. The second round of invites will go out after the first 72 hours have expired.
8. Registration will be closed 72 hours after 2nd round of invites.
9. We will not be inviting other series to this year’s Worlds.
24. Division Moveup
1. Athletes must have competed in the next lower division for one season, earned
the ranking in that division to be invited to World Wake Surfing Championship or
podium at Worlds. This will be an invitation, not an obligation and it is not
mandatory for the athlete to move up. However, after two consecutive seasons in
the same division, if an thlete exhibits extraordinary skill relative to the other riders
in that division, they me be asked to move up a division. This is at the discretion of
the WSWS.
IF ANY RULE OR REGULATION HAS NOT BEEN COVERED IN THIS DOCUMENT, ALL
RULING AND REGULATIONS GOES BACK TO THE WWA RULE BOOK. ANY
16
QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS CAN BE EMAILED TO INFO.WSWS@CENTURIONSUPREME.COM