2024 OFFICIAL ASIAN WAKESURF RULES
Rules that Differ from or are in addition to the IWWF World Wakesurf Rules
Rule 1 GENERAL
Rule 2 SAFETY
Rule 3 CONCUSSION
Rule 4 DISCIPLINES & AGE-GROUP CATEGORIES
Rule 5 REGISTRATION & HEAT SYSTEM
Rule 6 DISQUALIFICATIONS
Rule 7 EQUIPMENT
Rule 8 WAKESURF COURSE
Rule 9 BOAT SPEED & WAKE
Rule 10 FALLS
Rule 11 RE-RIDES
Rule 12 SCORING
Rule 13 RANKING
Rule 14 PROTESTS
Rule 15 USE OF VIDEO
Rule 16 SCHEDULE CHANGES & CANCELLATION OF EVENTS
Appendix A OFFICIAL WAKESURF HEAT SYSTEM
Rule 1 GENERAL
a) Applicability of the Rules: The rules set forth here govern wakesurf competitions
organized or sanctioned by the International Waterski & Wakeboard
Federation Asia (IWWF Asia). Whenever the masculine is used, the same shall
be construed as meaning the feminine where the context so requires.
b) Exceptions to the Rules: Where compliance with the rules is not feasible, the
Chief Judge shall, with the approval of the majority of the Judges, make the
necessary changes. Such changes will be announced at a riders' or team
captains' meeting, and by posting to official information board.
c) No alcohol is to be consumed by riders prior to or during the day’s event. The
day’s event is deemed as starting 1 (one) hour prior to the first rider starting his
run and finished when the final scores have been posted and the official
protest time has elapsed. Once a rider's results are posted, it is deemed that
the rider’s day is finished.
Rule 2 SAFETY
Unsafe Rider Disqualification: No rider shall be allowed to compete or to continue
to compete if, in the opinion of the Chief Judge and a majority of the Boat Judges,
his competing would be a danger to himself or other riders in the competition.
During the competition, the Chief Judge may halt the event for a poll of the Boat
Judges in regard to a rider's actions or conditions. Whenever practical, the advice
of a trained medical personnel should be obtained.
A rider under normal conditions will be disqualified for intentional contact with the
boat once underway. An exception to this is if the boat abruptly slows down or
the wake abruptly changes and the rider is thrust towards the boat, the judges
may determine to not disqualify the rider.
Swim platform starts and exits shall not be permitted. Riders are strongly required
to throw the rope to the far side of the wake and have the boat crew recover the
rope. Throwing the rope into the boat may harm the safety of the
judges/personnel in the boat, will be considered unsportsmanlike conduct and
may result in disqualification.
Rule 3 CONCUSSION
Any athlete that sustains a head injury after a suspicious fall shall be subject to a
concussion assessment using the IWWF On-Water Concussion Assessment Tool
(OWCRT). If the assessment is negative, the athlete will be allowed to complete
the remainder of the event. If the assessment is positive, the athlete will be
returned to the starting dock where a second assessment using the OWCRT will be
administered by an Event Official. If the assessment is again positive for a second
time, the athlete will be removed from competition and entered into a six-phase
brain recovery program which is part of the IWWF Concussion Protocol. The
competition should be put on hold while both assessments are being carried out.
In all cases, the Safety Director shall submit an Incident Report if the athlete is
deemed to have sustained a concussion using the OWCRT.
All IWWF National Federations shall implement a Concussion Protocol of their own
for use at events that are outside the remit of the IWWF. No National Federation
shall allow an athlete who has been diagnosed with concussion to take part in
further competitions until the six-phase brain recovery program has been
completed and the athlete declared safe to compete.
Rule 4 DISCIPLINES & AGE-GROUP CATEGORIES
a) Disciplines
There are two disciplines in wakesurf competitions using two different board
types. In general, the dimensions should be as follows:
i. Skim: board dimensions should be no greater than 2.54 cm (1") thick, either
with a fin no more than 5.08 cm (2”) deep or without a fin.
ii. Surf: board dimensions should be greater than 2.54 cm (1") thick, with a
minimum of two fins at least 7.62 cm (3”) deep. Additional fins can be
shallower in depth.
A rider can choose to compete in both disciplines, surf and skim. Riders must use
the appropriate board when competing in either discipline, i.e., must use a skim
board if entering the skim discipline. If a rider changes a board that was approved
by the Chief Judge he will be disqualified from the competition. OR if the
dimensions of the board are wrong for particular categories, rider will be
disqualified from the competition.
b) Hybrid boards, e.g., surf board with one fin, skim board with three fins etc., will
only be allowed in the age group format and combined category
competitions.
(Rule 3 d ii).
c) Age-Group Categories
The following age-group categories will apply:
• Grom Girls (Under 14)
• Grom Boys (Under 14)
• Junior Women (Under 18)
• Junior Men (Under 18)
• Open Women
• Open Men
• Master Women (30+)
• Master Men (30+)
• Veteran 1 Women (40+)
• Veteran 1 Men (40+)
• Veteran 2 Women (50+)
• Veteran 2 Men (50+)
Riders are only permitted to compete in one age-group category inside the
discipline.
d) Organizers can decide to run competition using two formats and should
announce the format in advance:
i. Discipline and Age group format: A rider can enter either one or two
disciplines in his age group or Open group i.e., Junior Women Skim and
Open Women Surf or Junior Women Skim and Junior Women Surf.
ii. Age group format: A rider is free to use two different boards - surf and
skim, or a hybrid board, for his routine as well as change his board
between passes or during a pick up from a fall. There is no limitation in
the number of times to change the board. N.B.: This format is advised to
be used in high level divisions so a rider can demonstrate his ability to
master both types of boards, and not to merge groups of less than 3
riders!
e) There will be a minimum of 3 riders required to open a category. The Chief
Judge will inform all participants as soon as feasibly possible if there are
insufficient riders within a category. Categories with less than 3 riders may be
cancelled or merged with another at the discretion of the Organizer and
Chief Judge. The merge scheme to be used is as follows
U14>U18>OPEN<Masters<Veterans 1<Veterans 2. Amateurs will be merged to
their regular age group unless they choose to compete in Open.
f) At none titled events such as International and National Cups, club events
etc. other formats can be used. For example, Amateur category can be
opened. This should be discussed and approved by Chief Judge in
cooperation with Organizer.
g) Should an event organizer decide to open an amateur category, the
following trick restrictions shall apply:
• Maximum 360-degree surface rotation
• Maximum 180-degree air rotation, eg. Air Front Side 180, Air Back Side 180
• No detachment tricks, eg. Shuv-it, Body Varial
Rule 5 REGISTRATION & HEAT SYSTEM
Registration will close 36 hours prior to the start of competition. If a rider is not able
to be at the site before the registration closes, he (or the Team Captain) must
ensure that a digital copy of his passport is sent to the Chief Judge and Chief
Calculator and that his entry fee is paid, as well as a clear indication of the
discipline/age group category the rider will compete in.
Once registration is closed heat distribution process will begin. Wakesurf
competitions will use a heat system. The running order for the first round of
competition will be determined by ranking list, performance/s during past events
or random draw if the first two are not applicable.
The number of riders in each heat is dependent on the total number of riders
entered. There will be a maximum of 6 riders in each heat.
A certain number of the riders from each heat will then advance to next round.
The starting order for the Last Chance Qualifiers (LCQ), Quarter Finals, Semi Finals
and Finals will be selected from placement in the heat and NOT scores.
The Last Chance Qualification round may or may not be used within the
competition, dependent on time and numbers.
Rule 6 DISQUALIFICATION
Unsportsmanlike Conduct: Any rider (or his representative) or official whose
conduct is deemed unsportsmanlike or whose conduct may cause discredit to
IWWF Asia, event stakeholders and sponsors, either on or off the competition site,
before during, or after the competition, may be disqualified from all or part of the
competition including completed events, by a two-thirds majority vote of the
Judges. Any and all infractions can also be punishable by disqualification of the
whole team, if any. Unsportsmanlike conduct includes, but is not limited to: use of
vulgar language in public, public tantrums, not riding to fullest potential, failure to
attend designated functions or events, consuming alcoholic beverages during or
before the competition, use of prohibited substances, competing under false
pretenses, concealing significant injuries.
It is the responsibility of the rider to be ready at the start dock based on the event
schedule. A rider must be ready at the dock/start area with his life vest (and bib
on if one is provided) and board in hand when it’s his turn to ride. In the event he
is not ready, he may be disqualified.
A rider may only swim to get his board after a fall and then return to position in
course where he fell. Any rider who swims down the course to gain advantage
over a fellow competitor will not be picked up. This will be the end of his routine.
Should a rider be disqualified for these or any other reason, he will not be
permitted to participate in the remainder of the competition, i.e., if he misses his
turn in the qualifying rounds, he will not be permitted to compete in the last
chance qualifiers.
Rule 7 EQUIPMENT
a) General: It’s responsibility of the rider to choose the board he is going to use.
All personal equipment is subject to the approval of the Chief Judge and
Safety Director.
b) Life Vest: All riders must wear a life vest. It is the responsibility of each rider to
ensure their life vest meets the following specifications:
i. It must float the rider.
ii. It must be constructed so as to provide adequate protection from impact
damage to the ribs and internal organs.
c) Rope: A wakesurf specific rope, with handle, will be provided by the
Organizer.
d) Boats: The total additional weight in the boat will be determined by the Chief
Judge. Additional weight can differ for different categories but must be exact
same for each category. Means Boys/Girls U14 may have less additional
weight while Open Men/Women will have more additional weight. This will be
decided before the start of the competition and will be communicated to
riders at the briefing or in written. Rider can choose settings of the boat
following the below format:
• Surf site: Left or Right wave
• Speed: Kilometers
• Wave profile: Steep or mellow
A Rider should clearly indicate the abovementioned before he starts his run to
Boat Driver directly or Jetty Marshal who should then communicate it to Boat
Driver.
e) Damaged Equipment: A rider is fully responsible for his personal equipment and
should have a spare board, fully assembled, at his disposal should any
damage occur. In the event that a rider realizes his equipment has been
damaged, he should touch his head to indicate that he wishes to repair his
equipment. This will, however, constitute one fall if it occurs in the wakesurf
course. If a rider falls in the wakesurf course due to his equipment being
damaged, it will also constitute one fall. If a rider needs to stop his ride in the
wakesurf course or before the start of his second pass to repair his equipment,
it will also constitute one in-course fall. The Chief Judge will have the final say
as to whether the equipment has failed. If a rider has damaged his equipment,
he will have four minutes to repair the equipment. The damaged equipment
must be repaired at the starting dock. The time begins when the rider gets
onto the starting dock. The rider must be ready to ride before the four minutes
elapses or his routine is over. The boat will then bring the rider from the starting
dock to the location of the termination of the ride, come to a complete stop
and then resume the routine.
Rule 8 WAKESURF COURSE
a) Optimally, a pair of start buoys, 15 meters apart, shall establish the
approximate area of the beginning of the wakesurf course from each
direction. The end of the pass shall be signified by another pair of buoys,
also 15 meters apart. Alternatively, a single-sided wakesurf course will also
suffice. The distance from the start and end buoys will be minimum of 45
seconds long at a boat speed of 17 kph. The distance from where the boat
starts to form the wake to the start buoys will be a minimum of 50 meters
long. This shall be marked by “run up” buoy. The “turn-around” buoy at the
end of first pass, at the same distance as the “run up” from the start dock,
shall indicate the point where the rider should edge away from the wake
and come to a stop. These course dimensions and set up will be used where
practical. The course length, by time, will be announced at the riders
briefing
b) Cut-Off buoys: A pair of cut off buoys, more than 15 meters apart, will
indicate the point after which the tow boat will not be able to get up to
speed, for the wake to form, for a rider to continue his run in the first or
second pass. The position of the cut off buoys will be determined by the
Chief Judge and Chief Boat Driver.
c) Proceeding through the two wakesurf passes: The boat shall follow as
closely as possible the path specified by the Chief Judge for the event, such
path to include the preparation time before each pass. The second pass
shall be in the opposite direction from the first pass.
d) A rider’s routine will end: when he falls for a third time or when he passes the
end buoys on the second pass.
e) The rider should carve away from the wave once he has passed the “turn
around” buoy as this is the point where the boat will initiate a hard turn away
from the surf side whilst coming to a stop, to displace the surf wave. This will
not count as a fall unless the rider makes an attempt at a trick or maneuver
or falls before the turn around buoy.
Rule 9 BOAT SPEED & WAKE
a) Rider may choose settings of the boat following the below format:
• Surf side: Left or right wave
• Speed: Kilometers
• Wave profile: Steep or mellow
b) Each rider shall receive his choice of a constant speed through the course
for each pass. The boat speed, assuming it is held constant before entering
the course, is the rider's responsibility. A rider may change speed of the
boat at any time during the competition run. There will be no re-rides
granted once a rider decides to change his boat speed.
c) Rider has the option to select whether he wishes to start on the port or
starboard side of the boat to begin his run and must clearly indicate his
preference to the boat driver before the beginning of his run. The ability
to transfer sides is at the Chief Judge’s discretion and will be
communicated to riders before the event begins. Rider may request for a
steeper or flatter wake at any time during the competition run, at the Chief
Judge’s discretion. There will be no re-rides granted should a rider decide
to transfer sides or request for a change in wake profile.
RULE 10 FALLS
a) Three Falls: A rider may have a maximum of three falls during his routine.
Should a first or a second fall occur, the boat will pick up the rider to
proceed with the routine. The rider will not be picked up after a third fall, or
after a fall that occurs beyond the cut-off buoy in the second pass.
b) Out-Of-Course Falls: Any fall outside the wakesurf course, before the riders
first or before the second pass, will count as a fall.
c) If a rider falls and his board flies down the course the Chief Boat Judge
and/or Boat Driver will take a notice of the place where fall happened and
let the rider start from this exact point after he picks up the board.
d) The rider must be ready to ride immediately upon the boat's return after a
fall or handle throw.
Rule 11 RE-RIDES
When unfair conditions occur, which, in the opinion of a majority of the Judges,
adversely affects a rider, he shall be granted the option of a re-ride only on the
passes affected. Re-rides will not be granted if a rider's personal equipment fails
and he fails to indicate it himself.
Re-rides must be taken immediately. If a rider is given a second re-ride, he may
elect to take a five-minute rest, during which the next rider in order will perform his
routine. The re-ride shall be taken at the conclusion of the rider's routine during
which the five- minute rest period expires.
Requests for re-rides should be initiated by a rider. The Boat Driver or a Boat Judge
of the event may also initiate the re-ride in case they see the unfair conditions or
circumstances occur. This should be done as soon as possible, before the next
rider starts. If, in the opinion of the Boat Judges of the event, the request was not
initiated as soon as possible after the rider has ridden, the request shall be denied.
Re-ride requests will not be permitted if they are based on variations in weather or
water conditions.
Procedure
If a rider decides to request a re-ride he must:
- Cease executing tricks immediately.
- Hold his/her joint hands in the air above the head and only then cut away (If the
re-ride is denied it will be counted as a fall).
- Once the boat gets back the rider may request a re-ride to the boat judges.
Judges must agree by majority to grant riders request for re-ride.
Chief Judge may overrule pending time constraints etc.
Approved Re-Ride:
A rider shall start from same place where he cut away. Exact location should be
agreed by boat judges.
Scores will be based on tricks completed before re-run was requested and the
ones performed during re-run.
The following are some reasons that do constitute reason for a re-ride:
- Adverse Weather
- Boat driver error (in case there is a clear error, and the rider falls because of this
error, the rider has the chance of asking the re-ride when the boat comes to pick
him/her up, not respecting the normal procedure)
- Mechanical failure of the boat
- Unformed wake due to failure of Wake Shaping Mechanism
- Rollers caused by boats under the control of event organizers
Reasons that do not constitute reason for a re-ride:
- Weather – wind or rain. Environment wind, causing choppy water, light
rain. All of which does not lead to a halt midway of an event, will not be
given a reride
- Currents, change of tides, etc.
- Equipment failure
- Backwash caused by vertical shoreline or constant unremovable obstacle
- Poor Performance – can be considered unsportsmanlike conduct
- Not following re-ride request procedure above
If a re-ride is denied, the cut away will be considered as a fall.
Rule 12 SCORING
a) Each rider shall be allowed two passes through the wakesurf course during
which time he may perform any routine he chooses. He will be judged on
subjective style categories, to arrive at a single combined score.
b) Judging of the routine begins when the rider enters the course or drops the
rope, whichever occurs later. Any trick started outside of the course or while
holding the rope will not be scored.
c) The start/end buoy is the end of routine of each pass. A trick started inside the
wakesurf course and finished in control immediately outside the wakesurf
course will be scored.
d) For a combo trick to score, the last trick of the combo will be the trick that is
started inside the wakesurf course and finished either before, at, or right after
the end buoy. If a rider continues to perform his combo trick after the end buoy
he will be penalized and the entire combo trick will not be scored.
e) Riders are encouraged to perform a smooth flowing routine with a wide variety
of tricks. Each trick should be executed as cleanly as possible and taken to its
limit. Judges will provide subjective scoring of each rider based on their overall
opinion of how well the rider performed his routine in relation to each of the
established subjective scoring criteria, in comparison to other riders within the
same heat.
Boat (Scoring) Judges: The Chief Judge will designate three Boat Judges to
be seated in the tow boat, to score each rider's routine.
c) Scoring: Each judge will award a maximum of 40 points to each rider based
on their overall impressions of the routine performed. Each individual heat per
division will be judged independently from the other heats on the day. The
judges will score the first rider of the heat subjectively and each subsequent
riders’ performance after that rider is judged higher or lower dependent on
their ride. Judges are required to determine both score and placement of
riders within each heat.
The judges will score each rider in each of the following categories:
*Execution – 1 to 10 Points (scoring can be in increments of .10)
This reflects how well the tricks are performed and the level of control/fluidity
maintained throughout each trick and the entire run.
Intensity – 1 to 10 Points (scoring can be in increments of .10)
This reflects how populated with tricks run is i.e., if rider goes trick after trick or
takes breaks between tricks to prepare himself for next one.
Difficulty – 1 to 10 Points (scoring can be in increments of .10)
This reflects how difficult each trick is based on any number of variables.
Variety – 1 to 10 Points (scoring can be in increments of .10)
This reflects the variety of tricks performed.
* riders will not be penalized for falls
d) Calculated scores will be cross-referenced to the judge’s placement of the
rider. The judges’ placement of the rider will always override the total score of the
rider.
Rule 13 RANKING
The Ranking List will be produced by the IWWF Event Management System. To be
ranked a rider must be registered in EMS. Only points of homologated and
registered competitions will count towards the Ranking List.
The Ranking List will use the star system. A rider will get his points according to IWWF
placement scoring system which is implemented into IWWF scoring program:
1st place 100 points
2nd place 80 points
3rd place 65 points
4th place 55 points
5th place 45 points
6th place 35 points
7th place 30 points
8th place 25 points
9th place 20 points
10th place 17 points
11th place 14 points
12th place 11 points
13th place 8 points
14th place 6 points
15th place 5 points
16th place 4 points
17th place 3 points
18th place 2 points
19th place and all subsequent riders 1
point
Events by stars with coefficients that will be applied to the points received:
1) 1 Star * - Club Events x1
2) 2 Stars ** - National Events / International Events with up to 2 countries
participating x3
3) 3 Stars *** - National Championships / International Events with 3-4 countries
participating x4
4) 4 Stars ****- International Events with 5 and more countries participating / IWWF
Regional Tour x5
5) 5 Stars ***** - IWWF Regional Championships / IWWF Pro Tour / League / World
Cup x8
6) 6 Stars ****** - IWWF World Championships x10
The ranking will be presented by age groups. If a rider competed in group other
than his age group, he will get points both to group he participated in and to his
original age group. The ranking will adsorb the points from “higher” categories to
“lower” categories. The total score of a rider will be comprised of his 3 highest
scores and will be perpetual means rider’s points may change after each
competition.
Rider competing in Amateur will be ranked after all Open riders e.g., he comes 1st
in Amateur but there were 5 riders in Open. So he gets points for the 6th placement.
In the case of the tie athletes with the same number of ranking points will take the
same position in the Ranking List.
Rule 14 PROTESTS
Protests shall be made to the Chief Judge only by the rider or team captain.
Protest must be made in writing, must state the reason(s) for the protest, and must
be filed as soon as possible, but no later than 20 minutes after the occurrence or
after the results of the event are announced.
The rider or team captain will come to the Chief Judge's station and get an Official
Protest Form to make the protest. The rider or team representative will then bring
the Official Protest form back to the Chief Judge for review. After the Chief Judge
has reviewed the protest and score sheets if necessary, he will meet with the Boat
Judges to discuss the protest. The Boat Judges will meet with rider to discuss the
protest if the Chief Judge deems necessary. Actions may then be taken by the
Chief Judge to address the protest.
Protests must be accompanied by a protest fee of USD50.00. This amount will be
refunded if the protest is considered reasonable or upheld by the Judges.
If a rider wishes to make a protest while on the water, the protest needs to come
by radio to Chief Judge's station. The Chief Judge will be on hand to hear the
protest. The Chief Judge will record the protest on the Official Protest form until
the rider is able to sign and complete the form. Chief Judge will take the proper
steps to solve the protest.
Protests will be handled by the Chief Judge and the 3 judges involved in the
respective event.
A correction of an error in the computation of scores shall not be considered a
protest and the correction shall be made on the approval of the Chief Judge and
Calculator within 20 minutes after the results are announced.
A request for judges to review judging sheets will be deemed to be a protest. Due
to subjective scoring, this may only be done by Boat Judges and Chief Judge, with
the following explanation to rider and team captain.
Rule 15 USE OF VIDEO
Due to the subjective scoring nature & spirit of wakesurfing, video footage of any
kind will not be used by Judges, riders or representatives to resolve any disputes.
Judges will not view or comment on any video footage during the event.
RULE 16 SCHEDULE CHANGES & CANCELLATION OF EVENTS
Changes in the schedule during the competition shall be made only for weather,
water conditions, safety, or a similar reason. Such changes will be announced at
a riders' meeting, and by posting on the official notice board.
In extraordinary case when the Final round cannot be completed for all or some
categories the winners will be determined from qualification round results or the
last completed round results.
Appendix A OFFICIAL WAKESURF HEAT SYSTEM
NUMBER OR RIDERS Qualifying Final
4 riders 1 Heat 4 1 Heat 4
Total 4 riders Total 4 riders
6 riders 1 Heat 6 1 Heat 6
Total 6 riders Total 6 riders
8 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat 6
1 Heat of 4
(Top 2 to Final) LCQ Top 2 to Final
Total 8 riders Total 4 riders Total 6 riders
10 Riders 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat 6
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Final) (LCQ Top 2 to Final)
Total 10 riders Total 6 riders Total 6 riders
12 Riders 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4
(Top 2 to Final) (LCQ Top 1 to Final)
Total 12 riders Total 8 riders Total 6 riders
14 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 14 riders Total 5 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
3 riders
Total 3 riders Total 3 riders
5 riders
Total 5 riders Total 5 riders
7 riders
Qualifying
1 Heat of 3
(Top 2 to Final)
Total 7 riders
LCQ Final
Total 3 riders Total 6 riders
9 riders
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Final)
Total 8 riders Total 4 riders Total 6 riders
11 Riders
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Final)
Total 11 riders Total 7 riders Total 6 riders
13 Riders
Qualifying
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to Semi)
Total 13 riders
LCQ Semi-Final Final
Total 4 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
15 Riders
Total 15 riders Total 6 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
Qualifying LCQ Semi Final Final
16 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 4
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 16 riders Total 8 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
17 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 17 riders Total 9 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
18 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 18 riders Total 10 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
19 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 19 riders Total 11 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
20 Riders 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 20 riders Total 12 riders Total 10 riders Total 6 riders
21 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 2 to Final)
Total 21 riders Total 11 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
22 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4
1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 2 to Semi) (LCQ Winner to Semi) (Top 2 to Final)
Total 22 riders Total 12 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
Qualifying LCQ 1/4 Final Semi Final Final
23 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Top 2 to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 23 riders Total 8 riders Total 19 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
24 Riders 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Top 2 to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 24 riders Total 9 riders Total 19 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
25 Riders 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Top 2 to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 25 riders Total 10 riders Total 19 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
26 Riders 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 heat of 5 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Top 2 to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 26 riders Total 11 riders Total 19 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
27 Riders 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 6 1 heat of 6 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Top 2 to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 27 riders Total 12 riders Total 19 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
28 Riders 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 6 1 heat of 4 1 Heat of 4 1 Heat of 6
1 Heat of 6 1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5 1 Heat of 5
1 Heat of 5
(Top 3 to 1/4
Final)
(LCQ Winner to 1/4
Final) (Top 3 to Semi Final) (Top 3 to Final)
Total 28 riders Total 13 riders Total 18 riders Total 12 riders Total 6 riders
Please contact Marcus Lee, IWWF Asia Wakesurf Council Chair
for more information
Updated 1st January 2024